Step four, reporting insights.
The fourth step in our data science
process is reporting the insights gained
from our analysis.
This is a very important step
to communicate your insights and
make a case for
what actions should follow.
It can change shape based on your
audience and should not be taken lightly.
So how do you get started?
The first thing to do is to look
at your analysis results and
decide what to present or report as the
biggest value or biggest set of values.
In deciding what to present you
should ask yourself these questions.
What is the punchline?
In other words, what are the main results?
What added value do
these results provide or
how can the model add to the application?
How do the results compare to
the success criteria determined at
the beginning of the project?
Answers to these questions are the items
you need to include in your report or
presentation.
So make them the main topics and
gather facts to back them up.
Keep in mind that not all of
your results may be rosy.
Your analysis may show results that are
counter to what you were hoping to find,
or results that are inconclusive or
puzzling.
You need to show these results as well.
Domain experts may find some of
these results to be puzzling, and
inconclusive findings may
lead to additional analysis.
Remember the point of
reporting your findings
is to determine what
the next step should be.
All findings must be presented so
that informed decisions can be made.
Visualization is an important
tool in presenting your results.
The techniques that we discuss and
explore in data can be used here as well.
What were they?
Scatter plots, line graphs,
heat maps, and other types of graphs
are effective ways to present
your results visually.
This time you're not
plotting the input data, but
you're plotting the output
data with similar tools.
You should also have tables with
details from your analysis as backups,
if someone wants to take
a deeper dive into the results.
There are many visualization
tools that are available.
Some of the most popular open
source ones are listed here.
R is a software package for
general data analysis.
It has powerful visualization
capabilities as well.
Python is a general purpose
programming language
that also has a number of packages to
support data analysis and graphics.
D3 is a JavaScript library for
producing interactive web based
visualizations and data driven documents.
Leaflet is a lightweight mobile
friendly JavaScript library
to create interactive maps.
Tableau Public Allows you
to create visualizations,
in your public profile, and share them,
or put them, on a site, or blog.
Google Charts provides
cross-browser compatibility,
and closed platform portability
to iPhones and Android.
Timeline is a JavaScript library
that allows you to create timelines.
In summary, you want to report your
findings by presenting your results and
value add with graphs
using visualization tools.